# Wedding Photo Dropbox

## Overview
This project is my take on an alternative to event photo dropbox products. Rather than pay for one of these services, I decided to create my own. The project uses a REST API architecture to handle HTTP requests from the frontend. A QR code is generated for guests to scan which routes directly to the dropbox page. Once the photos are sent, they are saved to the server's hard drive and a path to the photo is saved to the PostgreSQL database for retrieval. Alternatively, an AWS stack consisting of RDS, S3, and Elastic Beanstalk can be used to deploy this app for non-local use.
## Purpose
The purpose of this project was to learn how to use Spring Boot and implement RESTful services. I learned the basics of Spring Boot, how to implement a REST API, how to handle files as JSON objects from requests, and the industry standard controller -> service -> repository architecture to handle my domain objects. This project was focused on backend development. The frontend index.html was generated by AI. I plan to go back and learn those langauages in the future.
## Usage
To use this project, the mobile device must be connected to the same wifi as the host computer. `docker compose up` is ran to start the database. `mvn spring-boot:run` starts the server. The QR code png file is created to be distributed. From there, users can send photos from their camera roll. When using the local profile, these photos will be sent directly to the host's hard drive. When using the prod profile, files will be uploaded to Amazon S3 with associated keys saved to the database. To retrieve photos from S3, simply run the PhotoDownloader.java and the photos will be saved to a zip file on the hard drive. To use this project without needing a local host, Amazon RDS and Elastic Beanstalk must be configured. All of the enviroment variables in .env must me added to the Beanstalk environment, updating the DB_URL and qrcode domain accordingly.
### Status
This project is fully functional. Stress testing in progress. 
